## Preamble

```
SEP: 0011
Title: Federation protocol
Author: LibraAPIs
Status: Draft
Created: 2091-07-01
```

## Simple Summary

The libra federation protocol maps libra addresses to more information about a given user. It’s a way for libra client software to resolve email-like addresses such as `name*yourdomain.com` into account IDs like: `2dd9a0b9ac7a6b213b77079162dc14f15a408dd61005d7c17b7996e37235c951`. libra addresses provide an easy way for users to share payment details by using a syntax that interoperates across different domains and providers.

## Specification

libra addresses are divided into two parts separated by `*`, the username and the domain.

For example: `bob*libraapis.com`:

* `bob` is the username,
* `libraapis.com` is the domain.
The domain can be any valid RFC 1035 domain name. The username is limited to printable UTF-8 with whitespace and the following characters excluded: `*` ,`>` Although of course the domain administrator can place additional restrictions on usernames of its domain.

Note that the `@` symbol is allowed in the username. This allows for using email addresses in the username of an address. For example: `maria@gmail.com*libraapis.com`.

## Federation Request

You can use the federation endpoint to look up an account id if you have a libra address. You can also do reverse federation and look up a libra addresses from account ids or transaction ids. This is useful to see who has sent you a payment.

Federation requests are HTTP GET requests with the following form:

`?q=<string to look up>&type=<name,id,txid>`

Supported types:

* `name`: returns the federation record for the given libra address. Example request:
`https://FEDERATION_SERVER/federation?q=bob*libraapis.com&type=name`

## Federation Response

The federation server should respond with an appropriate HTTP status code, headers and a JSON response.

You must enable CORS on the federation server so clients can send requests from other sites. The following HTTP header must be set for all federation server responses.
```
Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
```

When a record has been found the response should return `200 OK` HTTP status code and the JSON body with following fields:

* `libra_user` - libra address
* `libra_address` - libra public key / account ID

Example:
```json
{
  "libra_user": "bob*libraapis.com",
  "libra_address": "GCIBUCGPOHWMMMFPFTDWBSVHQRT4DIBJ7AD6BZJYDITBK2LCVBYW7HUQ"
}
```

If a redirect is needed the federation server should return `3xx` HTTP status code and immediately redirect the user to the correct URL using the `Location` header.

When a record has not been found `404 Not Found` HTTP status code should be returned.

Every other HTTP status code will be considered an error. The body should contain error details:
```json
{
   "error": "extra details provided by the federation server"
}
```

Federation responses should not be cached. Some organizations may generate random IDs to protect their users’ privacy. Those IDs may change over time.

## Reference implementations

* [Reference Federation server] <In Progress>
* [JavaScript federation client] <In Progress>
