## Preamble

```
SEP: 0012
Title: Payment Request URI
Author: LibraAPIs
Status: Draft
Created: 2091-07-01
```

## Simple Summary

The purpose of this URI scheme is to enable users to easily make payments by simply clicking links on webpages or scanning QR Codes.

## ABNF grammar

(See also [[#Simpler syntax|a simpler representation of syntax]])

 libraurn     = "libra:" libraaddress [ "?" libraparams ]
 libraaddress = *base58
 libraparams  = libraparam [ "&" libraparams ]
 libraparam   = [ amountparam / labelparam / messageparam / otherparam / reqparam ]
 amountparam    = "amount=" *digit [ "." *digit ]
 labelparam     = "label=" *qchar
 messageparam   = "message=" *qchar
 otherparam     = qchar *qchar [ "=" *qchar ]
 reqparam       = "req-" qchar *qchar [ "=" *qchar ]

Here, "qchar" corresponds to valid characters of an RFC 3986 URI query component, excluding the "=" and "&" characters, which this SEP takes as separators.

The scheme component ("libra:") is case-insensitive, and implementations must accept any combination of uppercase and lowercase letters. The rest of the URI is case-sensitive, including the query parameter keys.

## Query Keys

*label: Label for that address (e.g. name of receiver)
*address: libra address
*message: message that describes the transaction to the user ([[#Examples|see examples below]])
*size: amount of base libra units ([[#Transfer amount/size|see below]])
*(others): optional, for future extensions

## Transfer amount/size

If an amount is provided, it MUST be specified in decimal LIBRA.
All amounts MUST contain no commas and use a period (.) as the separating character to separate whole numbers and decimal fractions.
I.e. amount=50.00 or amount=50 is treated as 50 LIBRA, and amount=50,000.00 is invalid.

libra clients MAY display the amount in any format that is not intended to deceive the user.
They SHOULD choose a format that is foremost least confusing, and only after that most reasonable given the amount requested.
For example, so long as the majority of users work in LIBRA units, values should always be displayed in LIBRA by default, even if mLIBRA or TBC would otherwise be a more logical interpretation of the amount.

# Rationale

## Payment identifiers, not person identifiers
Current best practices are that a unique address should be used for every transaction.
Therefore, a URI scheme should not represent an exchange of personal information, but a one-time payment.

## Accessibility (URI scheme name)
Should someone from the outside happen to see such a URI, the URI scheme name already gives a description.
A quick search should then do the rest to help them find the resources needed to make their payment.
Other proposed names sound much more cryptic; the chance that someone googles that out of curiosity are much slimmer.
Also, very likely, what he will find are mostly technical specifications - not the best introduction to libra.

## Forward compatibility
Variables which are prefixed with a req- are considered required.  If a client does not implement any variables which are prefixed with req-, it MUST consider the entire URI invalid.  Any other variables which are not implemented, but which are not prefixed with a req-, can be safely ignored.

## Backward compatibility
As this SEP is written, several clients already implement a libra: URI scheme similar to this one, however usually without the additional "req-" prefix requirement.  Thus, it is recommended that additional variables prefixed with req- not be used in a mission-critical way until a grace period of 6 months from the finalization of this SEP has passed in order to allow client developers to release new versions, and users of old clients to upgrade.

# Appendix

## Simpler syntax

This section is non-normative and does not cover all possible syntax.
Please see the BNF grammar above for the normative syntax.

[foo] means optional, &lt;bar&gt; are placeholders

 <nowiki>libra:<address>[?amount=<amount>][?label=<label>][?message=<message>]</nowiki>

## Examples

Just the address:
 libra:45ypRGQQ4Eb66Qv3eQ6xGMWnpLcVENAoRQRHoH2xoQ4g

Address with name:
 libra:45ypRGQQ4Eb66Qv3eQ6xGMWnpLcVENAoRQRHoH2xoQ4g?label=Luke-Jr

Request 20.30 LIBRA to "Luke-Jr":
 libra:45ypRGQQ4Eb66Qv3eQ6xGMWnpLcVENAoRQRHoH2xoQ4g?amount=20.3&label=Luke-Jr

Request 50 LIBRA with message:
 libra:45ypRGQQ4Eb66Qv3eQ6xGMWnpLcVENAoRQRHoH2xoQ4g?amount=50&label=Luke-Jr&message=Donation%20for%20project%20xyz

Some future version that has variables which are (currently) not understood and required and thus invalid:
 libra:45ypRGQQ4Eb66Qv3eQ6xGMWnpLcVENAoRQRHoH2xoQ4g?req-somethingyoudontunderstand=50&req-somethingelseyoudontget=999

Some future version that has variables which are (currently) not understood but not required and thus valid:
 libra:45ypRGQQ4Eb66Qv3eQ6xGMWnpLcVENAoRQRHoH2xoQ4g?somethingyoudontunderstand=50&somethingelseyoudontget=999

Characters must be URI encoded properly.